---
title: "Dungeon: Lost Cognition"
keywords: 
tags: 
toc: true
sidebar: portfolio_sidebar
permalink: portfolio_dungeon.html
summary: 
last_updated: August 17, 2020
---

## Introduction

This was a team project for [Prof. Bing-Yu Chen](https://graphics.cmlab.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~robin/)'s course *Game Programming Fall 2015*. I was the programmer of the game, not the author of the artistic materials.

**Dungeon: Lost Cognition** is a simple 3D game written in C++. It resembles the style of Doom & Quake in the 1990s. Its implementation features a simple ECS (Entity-Component System), where all in-game potions as well as characters/enemies are instances of entities. To avoid building a level editor by ourselves, we use .bmp images to store level data:

{% include image_gallery.html file="portfolio/dungeon_level_map.jpg" alt="" caption="Different color represents different objects in the level. A playable world can be generated by the game program reading the image." width="100%" %}

Such design makes it really easy to edit and modify the map without recompiling the program over and over. The modular nature of the core architecture also makes it straightforward to add/remove features of in-game items.

## Screenshots

{% include image_gallery.html file="portfolio/dungeon_spawn.jpg" alt="" caption="Our main character facing multiple enemies. Floating objects are enhancement potions." width="100%" %}

{% include image_gallery.html file="portfolio/dungeon_enemy_and_lava.jpg" alt="" caption="It is hopeless to 1 v.s. 10. The glowing floor is lava." width="100%" %}
